---
date:   2021-12-30 22:36:58 +0000
layout: post
title: A miracle - "is when unexpectedly a need is met"
subtitle: Dig Deep - Think About It...
# description: 
image: /assets/images/dig-deep/miracle-sky.jpeg
# optimized_image: https://res.cloudinary.com/dm7h7e8xj/image/upload/c_scale,w_380/v1559821647/theme2_ylcxxz.jpg
category: think about
tags:
  - think about
  - miracle
author: Second Psalms
---

<span>

## QUESTION: How can you be a miracle worker?

</span>


{% include disclaimer.html %}

**My Thoughts**

I see miracles as when unexpectedly a need is met. This may be an over simplification. So let me take it one step further. It is when unexpectedly (or in an unexpected way) a need is met for one without the ability/authority/resources/power to fulfill the need, by someone with the ability/authority/resources/power to fulfill the need. There are three parts of my definition, I would like to call out: 
> "It is when <mark>unexpectedly (or in an unexpected way)</mark> a need is met <mark>for one without</mark> the ability/authority/resources/power to fulfill the need, <mark>by someone with</mark> the ability/authority/resources/power to fulfill the need."

I place focus on these three phrases because if I wanted to start an arguement with myself which I do. The first thing I might argue is well a child has no way of feeding themselves and they may not expect someone to feed them that‘s not a miracle. As a parent there is an expectation a duty that you would feed your own child. Sadly, there is no expectation that you would feed another’s. Let’s not be cynical here. In the eyes of the receiver, when they see no way for or have no expectation that their "needs" (not wants) can be met and they are. To that person, that is a miracle. See a need, fill a need. This is one of many signs of God's presence, of the power that abides in those that "love others as themselves". Think about it…

Not everyone is gifted with “the working of miracles” (1 Corinthian 12:10 NKJV), but if you are…

## ANSWER: See a need, fill a need.

---

<span class="aside">

**SIDE NOTE:**
In the bible the word "miracle" is used to translate, "signs and/or wonder" or "power and/or ability". One word being used in two ways.

**Miracle definition found in the bible:** 

<small>
NOTE: I actually use a Strong’s Concordance, but share from an online version for reference.
</small>

- In the Old Testament or Hebrew:
	- **"miracle/sign" or [môp̱êṯ or mopheth(Hebrew - Strong's Concordance)](https://biblehub.com/hebrew/4159.htm)**
		- wonder, sign, miracle, portent
			- wonder (as a special display of God's power)
			- sign, token (of future event)
- In the New Testament or Greek:
	- **"miracle/sign" or [semeion (Greek - Strong's Concordance)](https://www.biblestudytools.com/lexicons/greek/nas/semeion.html)** 
		- a sign, mark, token
			- that by which a person or a thing is distinguished from others and is known
			- a sign, prodigy, portent, i.e. an unusual occurrence, transcending the common course of nature
				- of signs portending remarkable events soon to happen
				- of miracles and wonders by which God authenticates the men sent by him, or by which men prove that the cause they are pleading is God's
	- **"miracle/power" or ["dunamis" (Greek - Strong's Concordance)](https://www.biblestudytools.com/lexicons/greek/nas/dunamis.html)** 
		- strength power, ability
		- inherent power, power residing in a thing by virtue of its nature, or which a person or thing exerts and puts forth
		- power for performing miracles
		- moral power and excellence of soul
		- the power and influence which belong to riches and wealth
		- power and resources arising from numbers
		- power consisting in or resting upon armies, forces, hosts
	
</span>



		