---
date:   2021-12-31 09:07:58 +0000
layout: post
title:  1 Corinthian 12 
subtitle: "Spiritual Gifts"
# description: 
image: /assets/images/dig-deep/faith-hope-love.jpeg
# optimized_image: https://res.cloudinary.com/dm7h7e8xj/image/upload/c_scale,w_380/v1559821647/theme2_ylcxxz.jpg
category: dig in
tags:
  - 1 Corinthian
  - spiritual gifts
  - activities
  - serving the church
  - body of christ
  - commentary
author: unknown
---

<style>
	.aside {
		color: gray;
	}

	mark {
		background-color: #4D4D4D;
		color: #B8B8B8; 
	}
</style>


{% include disclaimer.html %}

---

In 1 Corinthians, Paul is writing a letter to a church he planted in Corinth. In his letter he addresses a list of subject that was plaguing the church at that time. 1 Corinthian 12 Paul changes subject from “the Lord's supper" to "spiritual gifts". Not switching subject again until around 1 Corinthian 14:26, at least not completely, where he switches subject to what the ESV titles “Orderly worship". Let's dig in...

## 1 Corinthians 12:1-3 ESV
> **1 Corinthians 12:1-3 ESV**
> *12 - 1 Now concerning spiritual gifts, brothers, I do not want you to be uninformed. 2 You know that when you were pagans you were led astray to mute idols, however you were led. 3 Therefore I want you to understand that no one speaking in the Spirit of God ever says “Jesus is accursed!” and no one can say “Jesus is Lord” except in the Holy Spirit.*

**POINTS FROM THE VERSES:**

- Paul wants to clear up a misunderstanding:
	- the world (pagan world) has a concept of "spiritual gifts".
		- *"1 Now concerning spiritual gifts, brothers, I do not want you to be uninformed. 2 You know that when you were pagans you were led astray to mute idols, however you were led."* - 1 Corinthian 12:1-2
	- the Jewish church, those who claim to be believers but are not following the "Spirit of God", has a concept of "spiritual gifts".
		- *3 Therefore I want you to understand that no one speaking in the Spirit of God ever says “Jesus is accursed!”* - 1 Corinthian 12:3~
	- those following the "Holy Spirit" has a concept of "spiritual gifts". 
		- *"and no one can say “Jesus is Lord” except in the Holy Spirit."* - 1 Corinthians 12:~3

**My Thoughts:**

I feel Paul is sharing that their are three perspectives on spiritual gifts, the world, the misguided believer and the true believer. I also have some concerns in the definition of “spiritual gifts". There is some confusion for me because based on my understanding in verse 1 the word gift was added by translators and didn’t actually appear in the original text. Could this change my understanding of the text. Let’s continue by breaking down some definitions. 

**DEFINITION DEEP DIVE:**

- ***"spiritual gifts"*** - I find it interesting and a little off that the word "gift" here has no definition in Strong's concordance. Only the word "spiritual". A little research/googling uncovered that the word [gift](http://lectionarygreek.blogspot.com/2010/01/1-corinthians-121-11.html) isn't in the original text but added by translators, "based on context". 
	- **"spiritual" or "[pneumatikos (Greek - Strong's Concordance)](https://www.biblestudytools.com/lexicons/greek/kjv/pneumatikos.html)".**
		1. relating to the human spirit, or rational soul, as part of the man which is akin to God and serves as his instrument or organ
				- that which possesses the nature of the rational soul
		1. belonging to a spirit, or a being higher than man but inferior to God
		1. belonging to the Divine Spirit
			- of God the Holy Spirit
 			- one who is filled with and governed by the Spirit of God
		1. pertaining to the wind or breath; windy, exposed to the wind, blowing 
	- **gifts or [charisma (Greek - Strong's Concordance)](https://www.biblestudytools.com/lexicons/greek/nas/charisma.html)** - Note: the word gift isn't actually present in the greek translation. It was chosen to be added by whoever translated from greek to english. The absence of the word gift in that verse can have an impact on the meaning. The sentence goes from, "Now concerning spirtual gifts", to "Now concerning (the) spiritual (human spirit, or rational soul, or a spirit, or divine spirit of God the Holy Spirit)". For the sake of arguement (that the context warrants gift) let us use the greek word for gift found in the verses that follow 1 Corinthian 12:4.
		1. a favour with which one receives without any merit of his own
		1. the gift of divine grace 
		1. the gift of faith, knowledge, holiness, virtue
		1. the economy of divine grace, by which the pardon of sin and eternal salvation is appointed to sinners in consideration of the merits of Christ laid hold of by faith
		1. grace or gifts denoting extraordinary powers, distinguishing certain Christians and enabling them to serve the church of Christ, the reception of which is due to the power of divine grace operating on their souls by the Holy 

<span class="aside">
	
**ASIDE:**

I have been taught,(or understood) that "spirtual gifts", were bestowed by the Holy Spirit, and that the Holy Spirit was only in believers, so therefore believers are the only ones with access to “spiritual gifts". Assuming it is true that only "believers have access to the Holy Spirit”. How does changing the text from "spiritual gifts" to spiritual" change my understanding. Does it? 
If the word gift was not present, but instead only spritual (pneumatiko), meaning "relating to the human spirit", or "belonging to the divine spirit". Then is whatever is being handed out only available to believers? 

</span>

## 1 Corinthians 12:4-7 ESV
> **1 Corinthians 12:4-7 ESV**
> *4 Now there are varieties of gifts, but the same Spirit; 5 and there are varieties of service, but the same Lord; 6 and there are varieties of activities, but it is the same God who empowers them all in everyone. 7 To each is given the manifestation of the Spirit for the common good.* 

**POINTS FROM THE VERSES:**

- Their are a variety of Gifts, Services and Activities, but for each Paul distinguishes their source.
	- Gifts - *"4 Now there are varieties of gifts, but <mark>the same Spirit</mark>;"* - 1 Corinthians 1:4
	- Services - *"5 and there are varieties of service, but <mark>the same Lord</mark>;"* - 1 Corinthians 12:5
	- Activities - *"6 and there are varieties of activities, but it is  <mark>the same God</mark> who empowers them all in everyone."* - 1 Corinthians 1:6

**My Thoughts**

Paul takes the time to call out gifts, service and activities independently and associate each with a source. Paul is trying to teach us something here, but what. I see two things that could be going on here: 

1. If I was arguing that all spiritual gifts come from the Holy Spirit I might say that he is using repetition. Saying the same thing over and over again but using synonyms to ensure understanding. NOTE: The trinity doctrine is not lost on me here, but if the trinity is represented then is their significance in which part of the trinity is present in each thing?
2. If I was arguing that they are three separate things, with some distinction, I might say he is communicating that there is a distinction between the three and there associated source or purpose. 

I lean toward option 2, in the verses that follow, Paul takes the time to define gifts, services (another word used is ministries, and activities independently. What is the difference between gifts, services, and activities? 
Paul also highlights three different associations. Gift and the "Spirit", services and the "Lord", and activities and "God" (God the Father).  Why is this significant? What’s the difference? Lastly what does Paul mean in verse 13:~6-7, *"God who empowers them all in everyone. To each is given the manifestation of the Spirit for the common good."* Is everyone, everyone regardless of acceptance of Jesus. Let us continue. 

## 1 Corinthian 12:8-11 ESV

> **1 Corinthian 12:8-11 ESV**
> *8 For to one is given through the Spirit the utterance of wisdom, and to another the utterance of knowledge according to the same Spirit, 9 to another faith by the same Spirit, to another gifts of healing by the one Spirit, 10 to another the working of miracles, to another prophecy, to another the ability to distinguish between spirits, to another various kinds of tongues, to another the interpretation of tongues. 11 All these are empowered by one and the same Spirit, who apportions to each one individually as he wills.*

**POINTS FROM THE VERSES:**

- The following gifts are "given through the Spirit… the same Spirit":
	1. "the utterance of **wisdom**" -
	1. "the utterance of **knowledge**" -
	1. "**faith**" -
		- Saul (Paul) was a man driven by faith, strong in faith, yet his faith was misplaced, misguided until he ran into Jesus on the road to Damascus. That very faith when applied to the true ministry serves the foundation of Christianity. 
	1. "**gifts of healing**" -
	1. "**working of miracles**" - I see miracles as when unexpectedly a need is met. This may be an over simplification. So let me take it one step further. It is when unexpectedly a need is met by someone who has the ability/authority/power to meet the need. Let’s first take a second and look at the definition of the word "miracle" used in 1 Corinthian 12:10
		- **"miracle" or ["dunamis" (Greek - Strong's Concordance)](https://www.biblestudytools.com/lexicons/greek/nas/dunamis.html)** 
			- strength power, ability
			- inherent power, power residing in a thing by virtue of its nature, or which a person or thing exerts and puts forth
			- power for performing miracles
			- moral power and excellence of soul
			- the power and influence which belong to riches and wealth
			- power and resources arising from numbers
			- power consisting in or resting upon armies, forces, hosts
	1. "**prophecy**" -
	1. "ability to **distinguish between spirits**" -
	1. "**various kinds of tongues**" -
	1. "**the interpretation of tongues**" -

**My Thoughts**

By what Spirit are are these gifts given? Are these gifts, gifted to anyone or only those with the "Holy Spirit"?

## 1 Corinthian 12:12-13 ESV

> **1 Corinthian 12:12-13 ESV
> *12 For just as the body is one and has many members, and all the members of the body, though many, are one body, so it is with Christ. 13 For in one Spirit we were all baptized into one body—Jews or Greeks, slaves or free—and all were made to drink of one Spirit.*

**POINTS FROM THE VERSES:**

- I believe Paul is using symbolism here to get the point across that "we", the collective "we" are one body (one "whole"), connected and bound to each other as people, as we also are bound together as believers (in the ministry) of Christ. 
	- In the verse Paul speaks of one connected body (whole), then he transitions to say, "so it is with Christ". Some translate that line to "so also is Christ". It’s comparing or associating a quality with one thing then assigning or associating that same quality to another. 
	- Paul uses very inclusive language, like the word "all". 
		- "**For in one Spirit we were <mark>all</mark> baptized into one body—Jews or Greeks, slaves or free—and <mark>all</mark> were made to drink of one Spirit.**" - 1 Corinthian 12:13
	- Paul goes one step further to make sure he calls out all people, "Jew or Greek" (representing non Jews some translate to gentiles), "slave or free". He doubles up on making it clear that "all", really means "all".
			- **aside** - I believe Jew or Greek was to represent cultural and or religious status, while slave or free was to represent socioeconomic status. 
	- "One Spirit" put us here into the body the whole, but we were "all made (designed) to drink of (accept the) one Spirit". 
	- In verses 14-26 I see Paul explaining how we are all connected, and have a purpose to play, whether we agree or not. He seems to be stating we were all intended to accept, drink of "One Spirit" as well. 

**My Thoughts**

God is not exclusive, "in one Spirit we were all baptized into one body", and all are "made to drink of one Spirit". The word choice here is what I believe throws many off. As a Christian the word "baptized" has a very specific association for me. I associate it with baptism or to accept Jesus, but it simply means to be immersed, and there are so many references to the "body" and Christ that I immediately make that association, but "body" also means whole or collective. In the verse that follows he says, "so it is with Christ", in other versions of the Bible it reads, "so also is Christ". Seems like he is speaking of a second body (group or collection). Digging in more. There is a whole that we were all immersed into, a whole designed to drink of one Spirit. 
By one Spirit We were all born into this world (given the first breath of life) and we were all designed to accept, acknowledge drink of one Spirit. There is a simple beauty to these words. God made us and we were designed to drink in the same spirit that was placed in us. All of us without exception who are on this earth was given life and designed by God for him. The missing piece that we seek in things and people. I can dig into this for days but, in the verses that follow 14-26, Paul goes on to explain whether one accepts it or not they are a part of the one body (the whole).

<span class="aside">

**Is the Christian God partial or impartial, exclusive or inclusive?**

God the Father is not an exclusive God he is an inclusive God. Making all available to all his children. It is and has always been up to his children to accept the truth, accept his grace, accept his love that he pours out indiscriminately on all. Yes, God does have his "chosen people" throughout the Old Testament, but are they chosen to be "set apart" as a class of people or set apart as a people who follow him and not the ways of the world. God is love and loves all. He makes the sun shine and the rain pour on the sinner and the Saints. He showers the truth and grace on those who accept him and those who do not. My brothers and sisters we have to be careful about being “classist and egregious" as the Pharisees were of Jesus day. They set themselves apart, thus missing the Messiah they had been longing for altogether. While he came as the Old Testament explained he would, one of the primary reasons they missed him, is he didn’t come and set them apart.

</span>

**DEFINITION DEEP DIVE:**
- "body"
- "Greek" (verse 13)
- "free" 
- "slave"


## 1 Corinthian 12:14-26

> **1 Corinthian 12:14-26
> *14 For the body does not consist of one member but of many. 15 If the foot should say, “Because I am not a hand, I do not belong to the body,” that would not make it any less a part of the body. 16 And if the ear should say, “Because I am not an eye, I do not belong to the body,” that would not make it any less a part of the body. 17 If the whole body were an eye, where would be the sense of hearing? If the whole body were an ear, where would be the sense of smell? 18 But as it is, God arranged the members in the body, each one of them, as he chose. 19 If all were a single member, where would the body be? 20 As it is, there are many parts, yet one body.
> 21 The eye cannot say to the hand, “I have no need of you,” nor again the head to the feet, “I have no need of you.” 22 On the contrary, the parts of the body that seem to be weaker are indispensable, 23 and on those parts of the body that we think less honorable we bestow the greater honor, and our unpresentable parts are treated with greater modesty, 24 which our more presentable parts do not require. But God has so composed the body, giving greater honor to the part that lacked it, 25 that there may be no division in the body, but that the members may have the same care for one another. 26 If one member suffers, all suffer together; if one member is honored, all rejoice together.*


**POINTS FROM THE VERSES:**

- God put the body (the world) together and all members (people) in it for a purpose. We are all a part of it, whether we want to accept it or not, and we’re all designed to work together for the good of all.
	- The body consist of more than one member. Each member is part of the body as God designed. The members do not get to opt out, but we’re arranged to be a part of it. The purpose may not be what the members "wants", but it’s what the whole needs. 1 Corinthian 12:14-19
	- All members must work together for the health and well being of the whole. We need each other, God "desires" no division, but that we care for one another suffering and celebrating together. 1 Corinthian 12:20-26
	- Everyone has value no matter their role in the body. Paul uses an interest comparison in verses 21-22, "*21 The eye cannot say to the hand, “I have no need of you,” nor again the head to the feet, “I have no need of you.” 22 On the contrary, the parts of the body that seem to be weaker are indispensable,*". The eye is a powerful organ. It is how the body takes in information, how the body navigates throughout the world, and the mind processes information for the good of the body. What good is the ability to see and think without the ability to interact with the world, by your hands and feet. This symbolism here is beautiful. We may not all be "thinkers", holding roles that shape the direction of the body, but what good is the body without all the people all the digits that execute against that direction. Whether taking about a governmentm a business, a family or a church. We need thinkers and doers equally. 
	- God intention was for us to work together to remove all division from the body and uplift one and all. 1 Corinthian 12:24~-26

**My Thoughts**

We have a world full of teachers, doctors, engineers, scientist, meteorologist, farmers, salesman, construction workers, delivery workers, stay at home parents, physchologist, government officials etc. People who are gifted with wisdom, knowledge, power, drive to succeeed, the ability to heal, the ability to read the signs of nature, the ability to understand people, the ability to communicate well, or to understand well. Everyone of us are a part of this world that God has made and play a role in it’s salvation. Whether we want to accept it or not we are in this together and God would have us suffer and celebrate together. 
Look at the stories of the Old Testament. God’s will was completed not just by the Israelites but every one of the people had a part to play in the Gospel. Everyone from Babylonian kings, to prostitutes, to divorcees, murders, wise kings, slave girls, believers and non believers and God was there, God accepted their acceptance of him, as adoption into his grace. Blessing so many. We were all created by one Spirit and designed, "made to drink of" one Spirit. 
We must work together for the health of the whole body. The parts of the body that appear to be weaker are indispensable. 


##1 Corinthian 12:27-31

> ** 1 Corinthian 12:27-31** 
> *27 Now you are the body of Christ and individually members of it. 28 And God has appointed in the church first apostles, second prophets, third teachers, then miracles, then gifts of healing, helping, administrating, and various kinds of tongues. 29 Are all apostles? Are all prophets? Are all teachers? Do all work miracles? 30 Do all possess gifts of healing? Do all speak with tongues? Do all interpret? 31 But earnestly desire the higher gifts.
And I will show you a still more excellent way.*

**POINTS FROM THE VERSES:**
- At verse 27, Paul shifts from the the “Gifts” provided to the “whole”, to the “services (ministries)” within the church. God has appointed the following (in this order): 
	1. Apostles - a delegate, messenger, one sent by Christ (the 12)
	1. Prophets - one who can interpret the word of God
	1. Teachers - one who teaches concerning the things of God
	1. Miracle workers - ?? one who can perform signs/wonders that expresses the presence of God??
	1. Then the following on potentially equal ranking: 
		a. Healers
		a. Helpers
		a. Administrators
		a. Speak/Interpret Tongues (various kinds of)
- Notice that some, but not all of the “services” have the same titles as the “gifts”. Is the key here when one shifts to use their gifts (or activities) in service of the Lord - 1 Corinthian 12:5

**My Thoughts**

- There is something that distinguishes “gifts” from “services”. The key differences that stand out to me is one the “gifts” are available to all people, while the “services” are for the ministry (service) of the Church.
- While all service to God has value, the closer in proximity one is to getting the message from God the higher the ranking, but even considering proximity to God. Their is a “more excellent way” - 1 Corinthian 12:~31











